Docs: Hosted Authenticate Service capabilities page and sidebar (#582)
pomerium/documentation: content/docs/capabilities/hosted-authenticate-service.md

---
id: hosted-authenticate-service
title: Hosted Authenticate Service
sidebar_label: Hosted Authenticate Service
keywords: [hosted authenticate service url, hosted identity provider]
description: Use Pomerium's Hosted Authenticate Service to set up and deploy Pomerium quickly.
---

# Hosted Authenticate Service

Pomerium v0.23.0 provides a **Hosted Authenticate Service**, which includes a **Hosted Authenticate Service URL** and a **Hosted Identity Provider** you can use in your Pomerium configuration as an alternative to self-hosting these services.

The Hosted Authenticate Service is available for both open-source Pomerium Core and Enterprise users.

## Why use Hosted Authenticate Service

The Hosted Authenticate Service offers a quicker way for users to deploy and test Pomerium.

### Zero configuration

> Including the hosted authenticate URL in your configuration file authenticates your users against our hosted identity provider solution (we use Cognito).

Reviewer: We will default to the hosted authenticate URL, so, something like:

By default Pomerium will use the hosted identity provider if no `authenticate_service_url` is defined.

> This means you only need to include the hosted URL in your configuration file to use Pomerium's hosted services — no [identity provider configuration](/docs/identity-providers) required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means no [authenticate service URL](/docs/reference/authenticate-service-url) or  [identity provider configuration](/docs/identity-providers) is required.
```

### Less time to deploy

Pomerium's hosted services solution removes the tedium of configuring your own identity provider (IdP) and authenticate service URL so you can deploy your Pomerium instance in less time.

### Faster proof of concept

If you're testing Pomerium for the first time, run [Pomerium with Docker](/docs/quickstart) using our hosted services – you can run Pomerium Core in **under 5 minutes** with minimal setup.

Current Pomerium users who are interested in our [Enterprise Console](https://www.pomerium.com/enterprise-sales/) can test out the [Docker Enterprise Quickstart](/docs/releases/enterprise/install/quickstart) using hosted services as well.

## How to use the Hosted Authenticate Service

> 1. Include the Hosted Authenticate Service URL in your configuration file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

1. Remove your IdP settings
1. Set up a route and policy

```yaml title=pomerium-config.yaml

> authenticate_service_url: https://authenticate.pomerium.app

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
